docs/Home.md, before:



# Environments using Template Engine
- [dotnet new](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-new) - the command for [the .NET Core command-line interface (CLI)](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/tools/), cross-platform tool for developing, building, running, and publishing .NET Core applications.
- [Visual Studio 2019](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/net-cli-templates-in-visual-studio) 
- Visual Studio for Mac

# Community 
- [Available templates for dotnet new](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki/Available-templates-for-dotnet-new)
- [Blog posts](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki/Blog-posts)
- [Gitter](https://gitter.im/dotnet/templating)

# Template authoring

|   |   |
|---|---|
|[How to create templates](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/tools/custom-templates)|New to template engine authoring? The article gives a tutorial on how to create a basic template|
|[Samples repository](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-template-samples)|These examples are good resource for learning how the templates work, however the repository is archived and no longer maintained. The examples may be out of date and no longer working.|
|[Reference for template.json configuration](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki/Reference-for-template.json)|In-depth description for `template.json` configuration with detailed description for properties and examples|
|[Conditional syntax in template files](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki/Reference-for-comment-syntax)|Learn how to add dynamic content in template source files based on conditions|
|[Supported post actions](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki/Post-Action-Registry)|The reference for supported post actions for `dotnet new` CLI and Visual Studio|
|[Supported generators for generated symbols](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki/Available-Symbols-Generators)|The reference for supported generators for generated symbols with examples|
|[Supported value forms for symbols](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki/Runnable-Project-Templates---Value-Forms)|The reference for supported value forms for symbols with examples|
|[Choosing a good source name](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki/Naming-and-default-value-forms)|Best practices for choosing the source name and in-depth explanation for default value forms applied to source name|


# Development and contributing guidelines
- [Contributing](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki/Contributing)

# Help
- Contact us on [Gitter](https://gitter.im/dotnet/templating)
- Raise an [issue](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/issues/new) on GitHub

Commit message:

added link to template JSON file

docs/Home.md, after:



# Environments using Template Engine
- [dotnet new](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-new) - the command for [the .NET Core command-line interface (CLI)](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/tools/), cross-platform tool for developing, building, running, and publishing .NET Core applications.
- [Visual Studio 2019](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/dotnet/net-cli-templates-in-visual-studio) 
- Visual Studio for Mac

# Community 
- [Available templates for dotnet new](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki/Available-templates-for-dotnet-new)
- [Blog posts](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki/Blog-posts)
- [Gitter](https://gitter.im/dotnet/templating)

# Template authoring

|   |   |
|---|---|
|[How to create templates](https://docs.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/tools/custom-templates)|New to template engine authoring? The article gives a tutorial on how to create a basic template|
|[Samples repository](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-template-samples)|These examples are good resource for learning how the templates work, however the repository is archived and no longer maintained. The examples may be out of date and no longer working.|
|[Reference for template.json configuration](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki/Reference-for-template.json)|In-depth description for `template.json` configuration with detailed description for properties and examples|
|[template.json schema](http://json.schemastore.org/template)]|JSON schema for `template.json` configuration file, it is highly recommended to use it when creating `template.json` file.|
|[Conditional syntax in template files](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki/Reference-for-comment-syntax)|Learn how to add dynamic content in template source files based on conditions|
|[Supported post actions](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki/Post-Action-Registry)|The reference for supported post actions for `dotnet new` CLI and Visual Studio|
|[Supported generators for generated symbols](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki/Available-Symbols-Generators)|The reference for supported generators for generated symbols with examples|
|[Supported value forms for symbols](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki/Runnable-Project-Templates---Value-Forms)|The reference for supported value forms for symbols with examples|
|[Choosing a good source name](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki/Naming-and-default-value-forms)|Best practices for choosing the source name and in-depth explanation for default value forms applied to source name|


# Development and contributing guidelines
- [Contributing](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/wiki/Contributing)

# Help
- Contact us on [Gitter](https://gitter.im/dotnet/templating)
- Raise an [issue](https://github.com/dotnet/templating/issues/new) on GitHub
